user_guide_src/source/index.rst, before:

######################
CodeIgniter User Guide
######################

- :doc:`License Agreement <license>`
- :doc:`Change Log <changelog>`

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

*******
Welcome
*******

- :doc:`general/welcome`

**********
Basic Info
**********

- :doc:`general/requirements`
- :doc:`general/credits`

************
Installation
************

- :doc:`installation/downloads`
- :doc:`installation/index`
- :doc:`installation/upgrading`
- :doc:`installation/troubleshooting`

************
Introduction
************

- :doc:`overview/getting_started`
- :doc:`overview/at_a_glance`
- :doc:`overview/features`
- :doc:`overview/appflow`
- :doc:`overview/mvc`
- :doc:`overview/goals`

********
Tutorial
********

- :doc:`tutorial/index`
- :doc:`tutorial/static_pages`
- :doc:`tutorial/news_section`
- :doc:`tutorial/create_news_items`
- :doc:`tutorial/conclusion`

**************
General Topics
**************

.. toctree::
	:glob:
	:titlesonly:
	
	general/index

*****************
Library Reference
*****************

.. toctree::
	:glob:
	:titlesonly:
	
	libraries/index

****************
Driver Reference
****************

- :doc:`libraries/caching`
- :doc:`database/index`
- :doc:`libraries/javascript`
- :doc:`libraries/sessions`

****************
Helper Reference
****************

.. toctree::
	:glob:
	:titlesonly:
	
	helpers/index

***************************
Contributing to CodeIgniter
***************************

.. toctree::
	:glob:
	:titlesonly:
	
	contributing/index
	DCO

.. toctree::
	:glob:
	:titlesonly:
	:hidden:
	
	*
	overview/index
	general/requirements
	general/welcome
	installation/index
	general/index
	libraries/index
	helpers/index
	database/index
	documentation/index
	tutorial/index
	general/credits

Commit message:

Simplify User Guide TOC
1) Simply the TOC by suppressing the detailed contents of the General, Libraries and Helpers sections
2) Separate the Query Builder documentation into its own section
3) Update the query_builder references to refer to the new Query Builder section

This is preparation for a documentation audit before release.
Signed-off-by:James L Parry <jim_parry@bcit.ca>

user_guide_src/source/index.rst, after:

######################
CodeIgniter User Guide
######################

- :doc:`License Agreement <license>`
- :doc:`Change Log <changelog>`

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

*******
Welcome
*******

- :doc:`general/welcome`

**********
Basic Info
**********

- :doc:`general/requirements`
- :doc:`general/credits`

************
Installation
************

- :doc:`installation/downloads`
- :doc:`installation/index`
- :doc:`installation/upgrading`
- :doc:`installation/troubleshooting`

************
Introduction
************

- :doc:`overview/getting_started`
- :doc:`overview/at_a_glance`
- :doc:`overview/features`
- :doc:`overview/appflow`
- :doc:`overview/mvc`
- :doc:`overview/goals`

********
Tutorial
********

- :doc:`tutorial/index`
- :doc:`tutorial/static_pages`
- :doc:`tutorial/news_section`
- :doc:`tutorial/create_news_items`
- :doc:`tutorial/conclusion`

**************
General Topics
**************

This section describes the basic techniques for using CodeIgniter.

:doc:`general/index`

*****************
Library Reference
*****************

This section describes all of the classes built into CodeIgniter.

:doc:`libraries/index`

****************
Driver Reference
****************

- :doc:`libraries/caching`
- :doc:`database/index`
- :doc:`query_builder/index`
- :doc:`libraries/javascript`
- :doc:`libraries/sessions`

****************
Helper Reference
****************

This section describes all of the helper functions built into CodeIgniter.

:doc:`helpers/index`

***************************
Contributing to CodeIgniter
***************************

.. toctree::
	:glob:
	:titlesonly:
	
	contributing/index
	DCO

.. toctree::
	:glob:
	:titlesonly:
	:hidden:
	
	*
	overview/index
	general/requirements
	general/welcome
	installation/index
	general/index
	libraries/index
	helpers/index
	database/index
	documentation/index
	tutorial/index
	general/credits
