readme.rst, before:

###################
What is CodeIgniter
###################

CodeIgniter is an Application Development Framework - a toolkit - for people
who build web sites using PHP. Its goal is to enable you to develop projects
much faster than you could if you were writing code from scratch, by providing
a rich set of libraries for commonly needed tasks, as well as a simple
interface and logical structure to access these libraries. CodeIgniter lets
you creatively focus on your project by minimizing the amount of code needed
for a given task.

*******************
Release Information
*******************

This repo contains in-development code for future releases. To download the
latest stable release please visit the `CodeIgniter Downloads
<http://www.codeigniter.com/download>`_ page.

**************************
Changelog and New Features
**************************

You can find a list of all changes for each release in the `user
guide change log <https://github.com/bcit-ci/CodeIgniter/blob/develop/user_guide_src/source/changelog.rst>`_.

*******************
Server Requirements
*******************

-  PHP version 5.2.4 or newer.

************
Installation
************

Please see the `installation section <http://www.codeigniter.com/user_guide/installation/index.html>`_
of the CodeIgniter User Guide.

*******
License
*******

Please see the `license
agreement <https://github.com/bcit-ci/CodeIgniter/blob/develop/user_guide_src/source/license.rst>`_.

*********
Resources
*********

-  `User Guide <http://www.codeigniter.com/docs>`_
-  `Community Forums <http://forum.codeigniter.com/>`_
-  `Community Wiki <https://github.com/bcit-ci/CodeIgniter/wiki>`_
-  `Community IRC <http://www.codeigniter.com/irc>`_

***************
Acknowledgement
***************

The EllisLab team and The Reactor Engineers would like to thank all the
contributors to the CodeIgniter project and you, the CodeIgniter user.

Commit message:

Bumped minimum version to PHP 5.3.3.

readme.rst, after:

###################
What is CodeIgniter
###################

CodeIgniter is an Application Development Framework - a toolkit - for people
who build web sites using PHP. Its goal is to enable you to develop projects
much faster than you could if you were writing code from scratch, by providing
a rich set of libraries for commonly needed tasks, as well as a simple
interface and logical structure to access these libraries. CodeIgniter lets
you creatively focus on your project by minimizing the amount of code needed
for a given task.

*******************
Release Information
*******************

This repo contains in-development code for future releases. To download the
latest stable release please visit the `CodeIgniter Downloads
<http://www.codeigniter.com/download>`_ page.

**************************
Changelog and New Features
**************************

You can find a list of all changes for each release in the `user
guide change log <https://github.com/bcit-ci/CodeIgniter/blob/develop/user_guide_src/source/changelog.rst>`_.

*******************
Server Requirements
*******************

-  PHP version 5.3.3 at minimum, but 5.3.23 or newer is recommended.

CodeIgniter is tested on PHP 5.4, 5.5, 5.6 and the latest version of HHVM. Use the latest stable version
you can for drastically increased performance and security.

************
Installation
************

Please see the `installation section <http://www.codeigniter.com/user_guide/installation/index.html>`_
of the CodeIgniter User Guide.

*******
License
*******

Please see the `license
agreement <https://github.com/bcit-ci/CodeIgniter/blob/develop/user_guide_src/source/license.rst>`_.

*********
Resources
*********

-  `User Guide <http://www.codeigniter.com/docs>`_
-  `Community Forums <http://forum.codeigniter.com/>`_
-  `Community Wiki <https://github.com/bcit-ci/CodeIgniter/wiki>`_
-  `Community IRC <http://www.codeigniter.com/irc>`_

***************
Acknowledgement
***************

The EllisLab team and The Reactor Engineers would like to thank all the
contributors to the CodeIgniter project and you, the CodeIgniter user.
