user_guide_src/source/installation/downloads.rst, before:

#######################
Downloading CodeIgniter
#######################

-  `CodeIgniter v3.0.0 (Current version) <http://codeigniter.com/downloads/>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.1.4 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.1.4.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.1.3 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.1.3.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.1.2 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.1.2.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.1.1 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.1.1.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.1.0 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.1.0.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.0.3 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.0.3.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.0.2 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.0.2.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.0.1 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.0.1.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.0.0 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.0.0.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.7.3 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.7.3.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.7.2 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.7.2.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.7.1 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.7.1.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.7.0 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.7.0.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.6.3 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.6.3.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.6.2 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.6.2.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.6.1 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.6.1.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.6.0 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.6.0.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.5.4 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.5.4.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.5.3 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.5.3.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.5.2 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.5.2.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.5.1 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.5.1.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.4.1 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.4.1.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.3.3 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.3.3.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.3.2 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.3.2.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.3.1 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.3.1.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.3 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.3.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.2 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.2.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.1 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.1b.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.0 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.0b.zip>`_

******
GitHub
******

`Git <http://git-scm.com/about>`_ is a distributed version control system.

Public Git access is available at `GitHub <https://github.com/EllisLab/CodeIgniter>`_.
Please note that while every effort is made to keep this code base
functional, we cannot guarantee the functionality of code taken from
the develop branch.

Beginning with version 2.0.3, stable tags are also available via GitHub,
simply select the version from the Tags dropdown.

Commit message:

Update GitHub "tags" link to new Releases feature.

user_guide_src/source/installation/downloads.rst, after:

#######################
Downloading CodeIgniter
#######################

-  `CodeIgniter v3.0.0 (Current version) <http://codeigniter.com/downloads/>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.1.4 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.1.4.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.1.3 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.1.3.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.1.2 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.1.2.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.1.1 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.1.1.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.1.0 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.1.0.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.0.3 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.0.3.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.0.2 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.0.2.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.0.1 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.0.1.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v2.0.0 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/reactor/CodeIgniter_2.0.0.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.7.3 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.7.3.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.7.2 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.7.2.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.7.1 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.7.1.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.7.0 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.7.0.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.6.3 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.6.3.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.6.2 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.6.2.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.6.1 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.6.1.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.6.0 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.6.0.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.5.4 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.5.4.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.5.3 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.5.3.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.5.2 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.5.2.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.5.1 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.5.1.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.4.1 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.4.1.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.3.3 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.3.3.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.3.2 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.3.2.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.3.1 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.3.1.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.3 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.3.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.2 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.2.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.1 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.1b.zip>`_
-  `CodeIgniter v1.0 <http://codeigniter.com/download_files/CodeIgniter_1.0b.zip>`_

******
GitHub
******

`Git <http://git-scm.com/about>`_ is a distributed version control system.

Public Git access is available at `GitHub <https://github.com/EllisLab/CodeIgniter>`_.
Please note that while every effort is made to keep this code base
functional, we cannot guarantee the functionality of code taken from
the develop branch.

Beginning with version 2.0.3, stable releases are also available via GitHub. Simply select the version you want from the `Releases <https://github.com/EllisLab/CodeIgniter/releases>`_ page.
