user_guide_src/source/libraries/ftp.rst, before:

#########
FTP Class
#########

CodeIgniter's FTP Class permits files to be transfered to a remote
server. Remote files can also be moved, renamed, and deleted. The FTP
class also includes a "mirroring" function that permits an entire local
directory to be recreated remotely via FTP.

.. note:: SFTP and SSL FTP protocols are not supported, only standard
	FTP.

.. contents::
  :local:

.. raw:: html

  <div class="custom-index container"></div>

**************************
Working with the FTP Class
**************************

Initializing the Class
======================

Like most other classes in CodeIgniter, the FTP class is initialized in
your controller using the $this->load->library function::

	$this->load->library('ftp');

Once loaded, the FTP object will be available using: $this->ftp

Usage Examples
==============

In this example a connection is opened to the FTP server, and a local
file is read and uploaded in ASCII mode. The file permissions are set to
755.
::

	$this->load->library('ftp');

	$config['hostname'] = 'ftp.example.com';
	$config['username'] = 'your-username';
	$config['password'] = 'your-password';
	$config['debug']	= TRUE;

	$this->ftp->connect($config);

	$this->ftp->upload('/local/path/to/myfile.html', '/public_html/myfile.html', 'ascii', 0775);

	$this->ftp->close();

In this example a list of files is retrieved from the server.
::

	$this->load->library('ftp');

	$config['hostname'] = 'ftp.example.com';
	$config['username'] = 'your-username';
	$config['password'] = 'your-password';
	$config['debug']	= TRUE;

	$this->ftp->connect($config);

	$list = $this->ftp->list_files('/public_html/');

	print_r($list);

	$this->ftp->close();

In this example a local directory is mirrored on the server.
::

	$this->load->library('ftp');

	$config['hostname'] = 'ftp.example.com';
	$config['username'] = 'your-username';
	$config['password'] = 'your-password';
	$config['debug']	= TRUE;

	$this->ftp->connect($config);

	$this->ftp->mirror('/path/to/myfolder/', '/public_html/myfolder/');

	$this->ftp->close();

***************
Class Reference
***************

.. class:: CI_FTP

	.. method:: connect([$config = array()])

		:param array $config: Connection values
		:returns: bool

		Connects and logs into to the FTP server. Connection preferences are set
		by passing an array to the function, or you can store them in a config
		file.

		Here is an example showing how you set preferences manually::

			$this->load->library('ftp');

			$config['hostname'] = 'ftp.example.com';
			$config['username'] = 'your-username';
			$config['password'] = 'your-password';
			$config['port']     = 21;
			$config['passive']  = FALSE;
			$config['debug']    = TRUE;

			$this->ftp->connect($config);

		**Setting FTP Preferences in a Config File**

		If you prefer you can store your FTP preferences in a config file.
		Simply create a new file called the ftp.php, add the $config array in
		that file. Then save the file at *application/config/ftp.php* and it
		will be used automatically.

		**Available connection options**

		==================		===================================
		Option Name			Description
		==================		===================================
		**hostname**			the FTP hostname. Usually something like: ftp.example.com
		**username**			the FTP username
		**password**			the FTP password
		**port**			The port number. Set to 21 by default.
		**debug**			TRUE/FALSE (boolean). Whether to enable debugging to display error messages.
		**passive**			TRUE/FALSE (boolean). Whether to use passive mode. Passive is set automatically by default.
		==================		===================================

	.. method:: upload($locpath, $rempath[, $mode = 'auto'[, $permissions = NULL]])

		:param string $locpath: Local file path
		:param string $rempath: Remote file path
		:param string $mode: FTP mode, defaults to 'auto' (options are: 'auto', 'binary', 'ascii')
		:param int $permissions: File permissions (octal)
		:returns: bool

		Uploads a file to your server. You must supply the local path and the
		remote path, and you can optionally set the mode and permissions.
		Example::

			$this->ftp->upload('/local/path/to/myfile.html', '/public_html/myfile.html', 'ascii', 0775);

		If 'auto' mode is used it will base the mode on the file extension of the source file.

		If set, permissions have to be passed as an octal value.

	.. method:: download($rempath, $locpath[, $mode = 'auto'])

		:param string $rempath: Remote file path
		:param string $locpath: Local file path
		:param string $mode: FTP mode, defaults to 'auto' (options are: 'auto', 'binary', 'ascii')
		:returns: bool

		Downloads a file from your server. You must supply the remote path and
		the local path, and you can optionally set the mode. Example::

			$this->ftp->download('/public_html/myfile.html', '/local/path/to/myfile.html', 'ascii');

		If 'auto' mode is used it will base the mode on the file extension of the source file.

		Returns FALSE if the download does not execute successfully (including if PHP does not have permission to write the local file).

	.. method:: rename($old_file, $new_file, $move = FALSE)

		:param string $old_file: Old file name
		:param string $new_file: New file name
		:param bool $move: Whether a move is being performed
		:returns: bool

		Permits you to rename a file. Supply the source file name/path and the new file name/path.
		::

			// Renames green.html to blue.html
			$this->ftp->rename('/public_html/foo/green.html', '/public_html/foo/blue.html');

	.. method:: move($old_file, $new_file)

		:param string $old_file: Old file name
		:param string $new_file: New file name
		:returns: bool

		Lets you move a file. Supply the source and destination paths::

			// Moves blog.html from "joe" to "fred"
			$this->ftp->move('/public_html/joe/blog.html', '/public_html/fred/blog.html');

		.. note:: If the destination file name is different the file will be renamed.

	.. method:: delete_file($filepath)

		:param string $filepath: Path to file to delete
		:returns: bool

		Lets you delete a file. Supply the source path with the file name.
		::

			 $this->ftp->delete_file('/public_html/joe/blog.html');

	.. method:: delete_dir($filepath)

		:param string $filepath: Path to directory to delete
		:returns: bool

		Lets you delete a directory and everything it contains. Supply the
		source path to the directory with a trailing slash.

		.. important:: Be VERY careful with this method!
			It will recursively delete **everything** within the supplied path,
			including sub-folders and all files. Make absolutely sure your path
			is correct. Try using ``list_files()`` first to verify that your path is correct.

		::

			 $this->ftp->delete_dir('/public_html/path/to/folder/');

	.. method:: list_files([$path = '.'])

		:param string $path: Directory path
		:returns: array or FALSE on failure

		Permits you to retrieve a list of files on your server returned as an
		array. You must supply the path to the desired directory.
		::

			$list = $this->ftp->list_files('/public_html/');
			print_r($list);

	.. method:: mirror($locpath, $rempath)

		:param string $locpath: Local path
		:param string $rempath: Remote path
		:returns: bool

		Recursively reads a local folder and everything it contains (including
		sub-folders) and creates a mirror via FTP based on it. Whatever the
		directory structure of the original file path will be recreated on the
		server. You must supply a source path and a destination path::

			 $this->ftp->mirror('/path/to/myfolder/', '/public_html/myfolder/');

	.. method:: mkdir($path[, $permissions = NULL])

		:param string $path: Path to directory to create
		:param int $permissions: Permissions (octal)
		:returns: bool

		Lets you create a directory on your server. Supply the path ending in
		the folder name you wish to create, with a trailing slash.

		Permissions can be set by passing an octal value in the second parameter.
		::

			// Creates a folder named "bar"
			$this->ftp->mkdir('/public_html/foo/bar/', DIR_WRITE_MODE);

	.. method:: chmod($path, $perm)

		:param string $path: Path to alter permissions for
		:param int $perm: Permissions (octal)
		:returns: bool

		Permits you to set file permissions. Supply the path to the file or
		directory you wish to alter permissions on::

			// Chmod "bar" to 777
			$this->ftp->chmod('/public_html/foo/bar/', DIR_WRITE_MODE);

	.. method:: close()

		:returns: bool

		Closes the connection to your server. It's recommended that you use this
		when you are finished uploading.

Commit message:

[ci skip] Add missing docs for CI_FTP::changedir()

user_guide_src/source/libraries/ftp.rst, after:

#########
FTP Class
#########

CodeIgniter's FTP Class permits files to be transfered to a remote
server. Remote files can also be moved, renamed, and deleted. The FTP
class also includes a "mirroring" function that permits an entire local
directory to be recreated remotely via FTP.

.. note:: SFTP and SSL FTP protocols are not supported, only standard
	FTP.

.. contents::
  :local:

.. raw:: html

  <div class="custom-index container"></div>

**************************
Working with the FTP Class
**************************

Initializing the Class
======================

Like most other classes in CodeIgniter, the FTP class is initialized in
your controller using the $this->load->library function::

	$this->load->library('ftp');

Once loaded, the FTP object will be available using: $this->ftp

Usage Examples
==============

In this example a connection is opened to the FTP server, and a local
file is read and uploaded in ASCII mode. The file permissions are set to
755.
::

	$this->load->library('ftp');

	$config['hostname'] = 'ftp.example.com';
	$config['username'] = 'your-username';
	$config['password'] = 'your-password';
	$config['debug']	= TRUE;

	$this->ftp->connect($config);

	$this->ftp->upload('/local/path/to/myfile.html', '/public_html/myfile.html', 'ascii', 0775);

	$this->ftp->close();

In this example a list of files is retrieved from the server.
::

	$this->load->library('ftp');

	$config['hostname'] = 'ftp.example.com';
	$config['username'] = 'your-username';
	$config['password'] = 'your-password';
	$config['debug']	= TRUE;

	$this->ftp->connect($config);

	$list = $this->ftp->list_files('/public_html/');

	print_r($list);

	$this->ftp->close();

In this example a local directory is mirrored on the server.
::

	$this->load->library('ftp');

	$config['hostname'] = 'ftp.example.com';
	$config['username'] = 'your-username';
	$config['password'] = 'your-password';
	$config['debug']	= TRUE;

	$this->ftp->connect($config);

	$this->ftp->mirror('/path/to/myfolder/', '/public_html/myfolder/');

	$this->ftp->close();

***************
Class Reference
***************

.. class:: CI_FTP

	.. method:: connect([$config = array()])

		:param array $config: Connection values
		:returns: bool

		Connects and logs into to the FTP server. Connection preferences are set
		by passing an array to the function, or you can store them in a config
		file.

		Here is an example showing how you set preferences manually::

			$this->load->library('ftp');

			$config['hostname'] = 'ftp.example.com';
			$config['username'] = 'your-username';
			$config['password'] = 'your-password';
			$config['port']     = 21;
			$config['passive']  = FALSE;
			$config['debug']    = TRUE;

			$this->ftp->connect($config);

		**Setting FTP Preferences in a Config File**

		If you prefer you can store your FTP preferences in a config file.
		Simply create a new file called the ftp.php, add the $config array in
		that file. Then save the file at *application/config/ftp.php* and it
		will be used automatically.

		**Available connection options**

		==================		===================================
		Option Name			Description
		==================		===================================
		**hostname**			the FTP hostname. Usually something like: ftp.example.com
		**username**			the FTP username
		**password**			the FTP password
		**port**			The port number. Set to 21 by default.
		**debug**			TRUE/FALSE (boolean). Whether to enable debugging to display error messages.
		**passive**			TRUE/FALSE (boolean). Whether to use passive mode. Passive is set automatically by default.
		==================		===================================

	.. method:: upload($locpath, $rempath[, $mode = 'auto'[, $permissions = NULL]])

		:param string $locpath: Local file path
		:param string $rempath: Remote file path
		:param string $mode: FTP mode, defaults to 'auto' (options are: 'auto', 'binary', 'ascii')
		:param int $permissions: File permissions (octal)
		:returns: bool

		Uploads a file to your server. You must supply the local path and the
		remote path, and you can optionally set the mode and permissions.
		Example::

			$this->ftp->upload('/local/path/to/myfile.html', '/public_html/myfile.html', 'ascii', 0775);

		If 'auto' mode is used it will base the mode on the file extension of the source file.

		If set, permissions have to be passed as an octal value.

	.. method:: download($rempath, $locpath[, $mode = 'auto'])

		:param string $rempath: Remote file path
		:param string $locpath: Local file path
		:param string $mode: FTP mode, defaults to 'auto' (options are: 'auto', 'binary', 'ascii')
		:returns: bool

		Downloads a file from your server. You must supply the remote path and
		the local path, and you can optionally set the mode. Example::

			$this->ftp->download('/public_html/myfile.html', '/local/path/to/myfile.html', 'ascii');

		If 'auto' mode is used it will base the mode on the file extension of the source file.

		Returns FALSE if the download does not execute successfully (including if PHP does not have permission to write the local file).

	.. method:: rename($old_file, $new_file, $move = FALSE)

		:param string $old_file: Old file name
		:param string $new_file: New file name
		:param bool $move: Whether a move is being performed
		:returns: bool

		Permits you to rename a file. Supply the source file name/path and the new file name/path.
		::

			// Renames green.html to blue.html
			$this->ftp->rename('/public_html/foo/green.html', '/public_html/foo/blue.html');

	.. method:: move($old_file, $new_file)

		:param string $old_file: Old file name
		:param string $new_file: New file name
		:returns: bool

		Lets you move a file. Supply the source and destination paths::

			// Moves blog.html from "joe" to "fred"
			$this->ftp->move('/public_html/joe/blog.html', '/public_html/fred/blog.html');

		.. note:: If the destination file name is different the file will be renamed.

	.. method:: delete_file($filepath)

		:param string $filepath: Path to file to delete
		:returns: bool

		Lets you delete a file. Supply the source path with the file name.
		::

			 $this->ftp->delete_file('/public_html/joe/blog.html');

	.. method:: delete_dir($filepath)

		:param string $filepath: Path to directory to delete
		:returns: bool

		Lets you delete a directory and everything it contains. Supply the
		source path to the directory with a trailing slash.

		.. important:: Be VERY careful with this method!
			It will recursively delete **everything** within the supplied path,
			including sub-folders and all files. Make absolutely sure your path
			is correct. Try using ``list_files()`` first to verify that your path is correct.

		::

			 $this->ftp->delete_dir('/public_html/path/to/folder/');

	.. method:: list_files([$path = '.'])

		:param string $path: Directory path
		:returns: array or FALSE on failure

		Permits you to retrieve a list of files on your server returned as an
		array. You must supply the path to the desired directory.
		::

			$list = $this->ftp->list_files('/public_html/');
			print_r($list);

	.. method:: mirror($locpath, $rempath)

		:param string $locpath: Local path
		:param string $rempath: Remote path
		:returns: bool

		Recursively reads a local folder and everything it contains (including
		sub-folders) and creates a mirror via FTP based on it. Whatever the
		directory structure of the original file path will be recreated on the
		server. You must supply a source path and a destination path::

			 $this->ftp->mirror('/path/to/myfolder/', '/public_html/myfolder/');

	.. method:: mkdir($path[, $permissions = NULL])

		:param string $path: Path to directory to create
		:param int $permissions: Permissions (octal)
		:returns: bool

		Lets you create a directory on your server. Supply the path ending in
		the folder name you wish to create, with a trailing slash.

		Permissions can be set by passing an octal value in the second parameter.
		::

			// Creates a folder named "bar"
			$this->ftp->mkdir('/public_html/foo/bar/', DIR_WRITE_MODE);

	.. method:: chmod($path, $perm)

		:param string $path: Path to alter permissions for
		:param int $perm: Permissions (octal)
		:returns: bool

		Permits you to set file permissions. Supply the path to the file or
		directory you wish to alter permissions on::

			// Chmod "bar" to 777
			$this->ftp->chmod('/public_html/foo/bar/', DIR_WRITE_MODE);

	.. method:: changedir($path[, $suppress_debug = FALSE])

		:param string $path: Directory path
		:param bool $suppress_debug: Whether to turn off debug messages for this command
		:returns: bool

		Changes the current working directory to the specified path.

		The ``$suppress_debug`` parameter is useful in case you want to use this method
		as an ``is_dir()`` alternative for FTP.

	.. method:: close()

		:returns: bool

		Closes the connection to your server. It's recommended that you use this
		when you are finished uploading.
