user_guide_src/source/helpers/directory_helper.rst, before:

################
Directory Helper
################

The Directory Helper file contains functions that assist in working with
directories.

.. contents::
  :local:

.. raw:: html

  <div class="custom-index container"></div>

Loading this Helper
===================

This helper is loaded using the following code:

::

	$this->load->helper('directory');

Available Functions
===================

The following functions are available:


.. function:: directory_map($source_dir[, $directory_depth = 0[, $hidden = FALSE]])

	:param	string	$source_dir: Path to the source directory
	:param	int	$directory_depth: Depth of directories to traverse (0 = fully recursive, 1 = current dir, etc)
	:param	bool	$hidden: Whether to include hidden directories
	:returns:	An array of files
	:rtype:	array

	Examples::

		$map = directory_map('./mydirectory/');

	.. note:: Paths are almost always relative to your main index.php file.


	Sub-folders contained within the directory will be mapped as well. If
	you wish to control the recursion depth, you can do so using the second
	parameter (integer). A depth of 1 will only map the top level directory::

		$map = directory_map('./mydirectory/', 1);

	By default, hidden files will not be included in the returned array. To
	override this behavior, you may set a third parameter to true (boolean)::

		$map = directory_map('./mydirectory/', FALSE, TRUE);

	Each folder name will be an array index, while its contained files will
	be numerically indexed. Here is an example of a typical array::

		Array (
			[libraries] => Array
				(
					[0] => benchmark.html
					[1] => config.html
					["database/"] => Array
						(
							[0] => query_builder.html
							[1] => binds.html
							[2] => configuration.html
							[3] => connecting.html
							[4] => examples.html
							[5] => fields.html
							[6] => index.html
							[7] => queries.html
						)
					[2] => email.html
					[3] => file_uploading.html
					[4] => image_lib.html
					[5] => input.html
					[6] => language.html
					[7] => loader.html
					[8] => pagination.html
					[9] => uri.html
				)

Commit message:

#92 `directory_map()` alternative for `get_dir_file_info()`
- Added optional parameter to `directory_map()` to call
`get_file_info()` on each file and add the result to the function's
output.
- Documented limitation of `get_dir_file_info()` when multiple files in
the directory hierarchy share the same name, and recommended use of
`directory_map()` as a possible solution.

This is not necessarily a fix for #92, but a work-around to maintain
backwards compatibility (in both functions) and make it relatively easy
to gain access to this information under these conditions.

user_guide_src/source/helpers/directory_helper.rst, after:

################
Directory Helper
################

The Directory Helper file contains functions that assist in working with
directories.

.. contents::
  :local:

.. raw:: html

  <div class="custom-index container"></div>

Loading this Helper
===================

This helper is loaded using the following code:

::

	$this->load->helper('directory');

Available Functions
===================

The following functions are available:


.. function:: directory_map($source_dir[, $directory_depth = 0[, $hidden = FALSE[, $get_file_info = FALSE]]])

	:param	string	$source_dir: Path to the source directory
	:param	int	$directory_depth: Depth of directories to traverse (0 = fully recursive, 1 = current dir, etc)
	:param	bool	$hidden: Whether to include hidden directories
	:param	mixed	$get_file_info: Whether to get file info, or an array (or string) to specify the returned file info (see :doc:`file helper <file_helper>`'s :func:`get_file_info()` function for options)
	:returns:	An array of files
	:rtype:	array

	Examples::

		$map = directory_map('./mydirectory/');

	.. note:: Paths are almost always relative to your main index.php file.


	Sub-folders contained within the directory will be mapped as well. If
	you wish to control the recursion depth, you can do so using the second
	parameter (integer). A depth of 1 will only map the top level directory::

		$map = directory_map('./mydirectory/', 1);

	By default, hidden files will not be included in the returned array. To
	override this behavior, you may set a third parameter to true (boolean)::

		$map = directory_map('./mydirectory/', FALSE, TRUE);

	Each folder name will be an array index, while its contained files will
	be numerically indexed. Here is an example of a typical array::

		Array (
			[libraries] => Array
				(
					[0] => benchmark.html
					[1] => config.html
					["database/"] => Array
						(
							[0] => query_builder.html
							[1] => binds.html
							[2] => configuration.html
							[3] => connecting.html
							[4] => examples.html
							[5] => fields.html
							[6] => index.html
							[7] => queries.html
						)
					[2] => email.html
					[3] => file_uploading.html
					[4] => image_lib.html
					[5] => input.html
					[6] => language.html
					[7] => loader.html
					[8] => pagination.html
					[9] => uri.html
				)
		)

	If the optional 4th parameter *$get_file_info* is TRUE, an array, or a 
	string, each file name becomes an array index containing the appropriate 
	output from the :doc:`file helper <file_helper>`'s :func:`get_file_info()` 
	function. If this parameter is not TRUE or FALSE, it should be an array or
	string matching the expected input for that function's second parameter.
